---
title: "Discuss the effect of pheromones on human behaviour."
---
#pheromones #biologicalapproach 
Pheromones are chemicals produced and secreted into the environment by animals, which affect the behaviour or physiology of others within its own species. They exist in all mammals, regardless of sex, and have uses including signalling that they are ready to mate. The existence of pheromones in humans, however, is largely debated, as there has been no identified pheromones within humans.  There has been much research completed on the topic; Wedekind et al 1995 did research on the effects of MHC (a set of genes related to the immune system) on human sexual attraction, while Zhou et al 2014 completed research on the effects of AND and EST on human sexual behaviour. 

Wedekind et al 1995 investigated the effects of MHC, by testing whether females would rate sweaty t-shirts as more attractive if it was from a man with different MHC genes to her own. The sample included 49 females and 44 males, who had their immune system genes tested. The males were asked to wear a plain white t-shirt for two days. The t-shirts were then placed in closed boxes, and the females were asked to smell them and rate them on two factors: pleasantness and sexiness. It was found that women rated the sweaty t-shirts as more pleasant and sexy if they came from a man with different MHC genes to themselves. From this, it was then concluded that people are more likely to find a mate with different MHC genes and therefore higher difference in immune systems to their own, to ensure that their offspring will have stronger immune systems. A strength of this study was how potential extraneous variables were handled. For example, male participants were asked to use odourless soaps, to ensure that the smell of the sweaty t-shirts was unaffected by other fragrances. This allowed for the results to remain accurate. However, the links between this study to pheromones are ambiguous, as MHC is not classified as a pheromone; though it was concluded that MHC influences human attraction, it cannot be said that therefore pheromones influence human attraction.

Another study related to pheromones was conducted by Zhou et al in 2014, which investigated the effects of AND and EST on heterosexual and homosexual men and women. The sample included four groups: heteosexual females, heterosexual males, homosexual females, and homosexual males, who were all healthy. Participants watched stick figures on a screen, and were asked to guess the stick figure's gender. While watching, they were exposed to the smell of cloves; in the experimental condition, the cloves were mixed with AND, and in the control condition only the smell of cloves was present. It was found that heterosexual females and homosexual males had higher rates of identifying the stick figure as "masculine" when exposed to AND than the control group, while AND had no significant effect on heterosexual men or homosexual women in identifying the stick figure's gender. It was then concluded that AND may have some effect on human sexual behaviour. A similar experiment was conducted with EST rather than AND, and had similar results where EST had significant effects on heterosexual males but not as significant effects for homosexual females. The study was highly standardised and therefore easy to replicate, and also had an inclusive sample which allowed for differing sexual orientations. However, despite these strengths, the study's ecological validity is questionable; the level of AND presented to participants was much higher than the natural amount present in humans. Therefore, the effects of AND in a practical situation may not match what was found in the study; the study is argued to be too artificial to apply in real life. 

These studies do show change in sexual behaviour and attraction from the sense of smell, however it is questionable whether they can be used in order to support the existence of human pheromones. Though the ecological validity in Wedekind et al 1995 was strong, the same cannot be said for Zhou et al 2014. Along with this, MHC, AND, and EST are not classified as human pheromones, meaning that despite the correlations between smell and sexual behaviour and attraction, more research needs to be completed in order to establish whether human pheromones exist, and to what extent they effect human behaviours. 