---
title: "ERQ - To what extent is one cognitive process reliable"
---
#cognitiveapproach #schematheory 
The concept of reconstructive memory proposes that human memory is not an exact copy of events, and is rather a reconstructed version which can be altered through various factors—that rather than being a passive process, memory is an active process. Schemas can affect to what degree of accuracy information is encoded and how it is retrieved from the LTM. Studies which focus on the theory of reconstructive memory include Loftus and Palmer, and Yuille and Cutshall.

Loftus and Palmer 1974 investigated the role of leading questions in influencing the estimation of speed. Their sample consisted of 45 students, divided into 5 separate groups. All participants were shown a series of videos of traffic accidents, and were then asked to give an account of what they had seen and fill out a questionnaire. The questions were all mostly the same, except for one question: “About how fast were the cars going when they ___ each other”, with each condition having a different word in the blank. The words included hit, collided, bumped, smashed, and contacted. It was found that for those who were given the question containing the word “smashed”, the mean estimate of speed for the cars was highest. Meanwhile, the mean estimate of speed was lowest in those who were given the word “contacted”. It was concluded that the participants’ memory of events were able to be manipulated by the leading questions. The procedure was standardised among all participants, with each student watching all videos, which reduced the amount of confounding variables present. However, the sample size was small, and consisted of students who may not have enough driving experience to estimate the speeds well. Alongside this, because these were only videos of car crashes, the ecological validity of this study is said to be low; it has been suggested that the encoding and retrieval of information might be more accurate if it had been a real accident.

Yuille and Cutshall 1986 had a similar aim: to investigate whether leading questions would affect the memories of eyewitnesses at a real crime scene. After a thief entered a gun shop, stole from and eventually shot the owner, 13 eyewitnesses of the crime agreed to be interviewed as part of the study. Four months after they had witnessed the crime, they were asked various questions and recalled the events they saw. Half of the group were asked if they saw “a” broken headlight on the thief’s car, while the other half were asked if they saw “the” broken headlight. In reality, there was no broken headlight at all. Likewise, half the group was asked if they saw “the” yellow panel, while the other half were asked about “a” yellow panel. The panel in question was actually blue. The findings showed that 10/13 eyewitnesses recalled no broken headlight or yellow panel, or they hadn’t noticed these details. It was concluded that their recounts of the events were reliable and matched police reports. The accuracy of the witnesses compared to the police reports were significantly high. Though it had high ecological validity, as the witnessed crime was real and unfabricated, there are a few criticisms to be had with the study. The sample was small and purposive, so it is difficult to generalise the results to the public. External variables within this study were also difficult to control, so some eyewitnesses may have rehearsed the information more or less than others.

Yuille and Cutshall opposes the conclusion that Loftus and Palmer reached. Both studies had considerably small sample sizes, however the ecological validity of Yuille and Cutshall is much higher than that of Loftus and Palmer. Both studies used leading questions as schemas in order to investigate whether participants memories could be altered, however it can be said that the inaccuracy in the participants of Loftus and Palmer was due to lack of emotional response; a real witnessed crime would induce more emotion and this may have affected the degree of accuracy participants in Yuille and Cutshall encoded and recalled the event. Memory is shown to be somewhat reliable in some situations, and in others can be easily reconstructed through the use of schemas.