Sexual selection is a type of natural selection whereby mates are chosen in order to create a diverse gene pool for offspring. In terms of behaviour and evolution, there is an assumption by theorists that behaviours are genetic and can be inherited, and that such inherited behaviour will benefit future reproduction. Sexual selection is evident in humans, as shown by Buss (1989).

Buss (1989) investigated three assumptions on human mate selection and evolution: that men will favour youth and physical appearance as this links to the ability to reproduce, that women will favour men with more resources because they will invest in their offspring, and that men do not want to invest in another man’s child and will therefore value abstinence. The sample was large, with over 10,000 participants from 33 different countries, and each participant completed two surveys. The first survey collected data regarding the preferred ages participants wanted to marry at, preferred age differences between participants and their spouse, who participants thought should be older in the relationship and how many children they’d want. This was followed with rating characteristics on how important the participants valued them. The second survey contained characteristics which participants were asked to rank in terms of desirability in a partner. Results showed that most women did value good financial prospects more than males did, while men valued physical attractiveness more than females. In all samples, men also preferred younger mates, with the average age being close to the peak female fertility age. However, chastity was not valued as much as the other traits. It was concluded that the first two assumptions were correct, but not the third (abstinence). From these results, it can be seen that evolution in humans is largely influenced by sexual selection, in that females prefer those with more resources, and men value youth and physical appearance—mates deemed “best” are more likely to pass on well-adapted genes to future generations. 

**Feedback**
Focus - 4/9 - Intro paragraph needs more depth and should also explore the concept of evolution. Be explicit in referring to behaviour of attraction throughout 
Knowledge - 5/9 - Too brief. Need to explore concepts further in first paragraph, some better knowledge shown towards end of second paragraph 
Research - 7/9 - Good overview of study. Good attempt at link, but be more specific. Link to genes is unclear based on previous discussion 
Overall - 5.5/9 - Well done.**