---
title: "SAQ - Explain one model of memory"
---
The multi-store model of memory states that memory consists of three separate stores: the sensory store, short-term memory store and long-term memory store. Sensory memory does not process information, and in order for this information to transfer to the STM, attention is required. The STM holds information that is encoded and not exact, and has a capacity of around 5-9 items. It has a duration of roughly 30 seconds, and requires rehearsal for information to remain in the STM. This information can then be transferred to the LTM, and if needed can be retrieved. 

Glanzer and Cunitz (1996) investigated the serial position effect; whether the interval of time between hearing words on a list would increase the amount of words recalled at the start of the list. The sample consisted of 240 army enlisted men, where 40 men were allocated to 6 different conditions: words read once at 3/6/9 second rate and words read twice at 3/6/9 second rate. After being given some practice lists to get used to the procedure, all participants listened to recordings of 20-word lists, which were standardised and contained the same words. After listening, participants were asked to write down the words they recalled in any order. It was found that participants with increased intervals of time between words led to more words being recalled, except for the words at the end of the lists. It can then be concluded that the primacy effect—where words from the list are recalled more frequently—is a result of rehearsal, as the increased time intervals allowed for participants to rehearse the words more. Participants couldn’t rehearse the words at the end of the list as much, and therefore they decayed from the STM.
