---
title: "ERQ - Discuss the value of animal models in the study of hormones and or pheromones"
---
#hormones #oxytocin #biologicalapproach 
Animal models are often used within psychology to study hormones which can also be found in humans. There are various reasons for this, including that research can be carried out over a shorter period of time whilst still studying the full lifespan of the animal/s. Because some animals and humans are genetically similar, what is found through the animals models could be generalised to humans; however, the validity of these generalisations can be questioned, especially as humans and animals are not completely identical. Two studies which investigated the effects of oxytocin on animal behaviour and human behaviour include Romero et al and Scheele et al. 

Romero et al used animal models to complete their research on the effects of oxytocin on the behaviour of dogs. The sample consisted of dogs which were all intranasally sprayed with either oxytocin or a placebo, and all were then placed into a room with their owner and another dog. The owner was asked to sit quietly in a chair and move it every ten minutes, and to not interact with their dog. The behaviour of the dogs was recorded through camera over the course of an hour. It was found that the dogs who had been intranasally sprayed with oxytocin showed more affection towards their owners than those who had been sprayed with the placebo—this affection included behaviours such as following their owner, licking, and sniffing. This affection was also observed for the other dog placed in the room. It was concluded that oxytocin played a role in maintaining social bonds between mammals. This study used a double-blind counterbalance, in order to minimise bias in the researchers, the owners, and the dogs themselves. A placebo spray was also used on the dogs along with the oxytocin spray on the dogs as well. However, the sample size was small, and therefore the generalisability of this study is limited. Like all animal studies, the dogs were not able to give consent, and were also unable to withdraw.

A study on the effects of oxytocin on human behaviour is Scheele et al, with two tasks that specifically focused on human fidelity. The sample consisted of heterosexual men who were either in a monogamous relationship or were single. Once again, either oxytocin or a placebo was intranasally sprayed for each of the participants, who were then positioned on one end of a room. On the other end was an “attractive” female. Participants were asked to slowly move towards the female and stop at a distance where they felt slightly uncomfortable. It was found that males in a relationship who were given the dose of oxytocin stood significantly further apart from the female than those who had been given the placebo. However, the distance between single males who were given the dose of oxytocin and the female was not significantly different from those who were given the placebo. It was concluded that oxytocin played a role in fidelity in non-single men, as it caused them to stay further away from a female who was not his partner. Again, a double blind was used in order to minimise bias from both the researchers and the participants, along with the use of independent measures. Limitations of this study include confounding variables in regards to the participants—the distance between participants and the female might have been influenced by another factor that wasn’t the oxytocin or placebo intranasal spray. 

Both studies seem to support the theory that oxytocin plays a role in relationships, where in Romero et al these relationships were non-reproductive, compared to Scheele et al which focused on fidelity. In this sense, animal models are able to support research done on humans—in both studies, a relationship between oxytocin and behaviour has been found. However, since one study focused on dogs while the other focused on animals, the behaviours they studied were different, so any generalisations made between the two are limited. Ethical considerations in both animal models and human studies are also prevalent, though in the studies mentioned above, there were little ethical issues.
