---
title: "SAQ - Explain one study of how emotion may affect one cognitive process"
---
#flashbulbmemory #cognitiveapproach 
An example of how emotions are able to influence memory is flashbulb memory. These are vivid memories in which someone learns about an event. In order for a memory to be considered a flashbulb memory, an element of surprise must be involved, along with an element of personal significance. Because of the element of surprise or emotion, the amygdala is involved, and therefore these memories are encoded differently to regular memories. One study which investigates the theory of flashbulb memories is Sharot et al 2007.

Sharot investigated the role of biological factors on flashbulb memories. After the events of 9/11, 24 participants were recruited through advertisements to participate in this experiment. While under an fMRI, various words were presented on a screen to the participants. "Summer" and "September" were included in the list of words, in order to have participants make a connection to the events of 9/11 or the summer holidays. After the fMRI scan, participants were asked to rate their memories for vividness, detail, and confidence in accuracy. Half of the participants reported having a flashbulb memory, and it was these participants who had reported that they were closer to the World Trade Centre on the day of the event. It was found that for these participants, the activation of the amygdala was higher while recalling the events of 9/11. Meanwhile, for those further away from the event, the amygdala had similar activation while recalling 9/11 and while recalling their summer holidays. It was concluded that close personal experience may have a critical role in the process of creating flashbulb memories, along with the activation of the amygdala.